being a wildlife cameraman it's
a whole discovery of technical
knowledge i'm working with Paul
Merrick who is a grantee of the
National Geographic Society dr.
Marek studies millipedes and
we're headed out to film them in
their natural habitat they
actually are quite difficult to
find during the day but at night
they're actually very easy to
find and this isn't an accident
these millipedes are actually
fluorescent which is what we
normally think of as
glow-in-the-dark they're glowing
carapace is actually a signal to
predators that hey I'm not good
food don't eat the first time i
saw when i get a double take
because there isn't supposed to
be light on the forest floor in
the middle of night it's just a
really cool and bizarre
phenomenon in my mind it was no
way to be too close to them so
at times when we were filming
the lens was only an inch or so
from the millipedes one of the
cool things about this work is
that every assignment has a
challenge and so often they feel
impossible at first in this
situation it was learning a lot
about spectrums of light and
sensitivities of camera sensors
and
had to figure out electrical
power for setting up lights in
the woods
basically you're just trying to
solve problems and create
solutions to see things that you
wouldn't otherwise be able to
when all is going well
all systems go you just feel
like really you're on this magic
carpet ride through the
underworld